Let's install Sun developer tools first one.
And personally this is my favorite code.
It's sublime text you can download based on whatever operating system you have.
In my case it's a mac so it's OSX so I'll simply click on here and just open this up and it's going
to install sublime text for me.
Now Sublime Text has this model where it is free but every time you save maybe like every 20th time
that you save Oh have a prompt says hey you should purchase Sublime Text so if you really really like
it it's good to contribute and actually buy it and most of the time the workplace that you work at will
actually cover the cost but you can also use it for free.
You'll just get that annoying prompt every once in a while when you save saying hey buy but you can
still have all the features that you want with the free version in my Mac.
I'm going to drag it into applications and while I already have Sublime Text actually installed so I'm
just going to say stop because well it's already installed.
All right so that's Sublime Text and once we open it up
it'll look something like this.
It's a code editor that allows me to write just like a war document but it has this ability to format
my code and make my code look better when I'm actually coding.
If I go down to the bottom here and click you see that we have different languages that we can use in
my case I want to use Python so that now if I do print look at that I have some color completion it
gives me some hints and lets say I make a mistake here while there you go I get some highlighting saying
hey matching bracket cannot be found.
Make sure that you close this out so immediately you can see the usefulness of this.
It tells me as I'm coding along what errors I'm making it makes the call pretty and generally is just
a better experience to quote now with sublime texts.
This python is actually version 2 of Python.
So if I remove the brackets it doesn't give me an error because Python 2 while this is valid syntax
so in order to upgrade this to Python 3 we have to install a few packages on a Mac.
It's command shift P and you'll get this drop down menu on Windows L.B. control shift b but you can
also just do it this way by hitting tools and just hitting command pallet and here we're going to say
install packages and for installing packages we're gonna say Python 3
and there's lots of packages that you can install to customize it.
And there's tons of resources online of customizing your code editor.
So everybody has their own preference.
Now if I click over here I see that I now have Python 3 and if I click here.
All right.
Everything is good.
And now we can just save this file we can call it.
Hi Dad.
Pie on our desktop.
And when we save this sometimes and this will switch over to python.
Now this shouldn't matter too much.
We could also do tools command pallet and just set syntax with Python 3 and another interesting thing
we can do is if we go to the command pallet once again I can say build with Python 3.
When I click that look at that it's going to run this file for me and it's going to say whoa whoa whoa.
There is an issue on line one says missing parentheses and call to print.
Did you mean print Hello.
How nice is that so we get to fix our errors.
And now if we do command pallet or if you're on a Mac you do command shift P as you can see here or
control shift B if you're on Windows.
I can just say Bill with Python 3 and now look at that.
Everything is running smoothly and it prints hello.
For now we have a basic setup for Sublime Text.
We can do a lot of things and you can google of how you might want to customize Sublime Text maybe you
want to change some colors so you go to color schemes and maybe I don't know.
Let's change it to Mariana and look at that.
It looks pretty good.
So lots of options here.
This is one of my favorite code editors but I recommend finding your own testing different things out
and finding why you like.
Usually though the tool like a code editor doesn't make the programmer you just want to get comfortable
with one of them.
And from there you'll just write good code.
So don't spend too much time customizing and making perfect because to me personally that's just a waste
of time.
Your time is better spent learning to code actually coding instead of finding just the best color scheme
to have on your code.
Ed.